Add new index settings for vector index (#1575)
neo4j/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/indexes/semantic-indexes/vector-indexes.adoc

Author: this multi-label/type/keys we support was introduced specifically in `2026.01`, we probably want to note that here?

before then it was still single label/type/key

_from now onwards such changes would result in a new provider_

Accepted values::: `STRING`: `'cosine'`, `'euclidean'`.
Default value::: `'cosine'`.

> [role=label--new-Neo4j-2026.06]

Author: for these labels, rather than "new" we'd ideally have "preview", as really we're releasing this a preview in this version

How do we do that? Is is smart enough to just have
`label--preview-Neo4j-2026.06` or do we need to update something for that to work/render?

Reviewer: I think that should work. Updating the preview will probably be the quickest way to find out.

[[config-vector.default_search_expansion_factor]]
==== `vector.default_search_expansion_factor`

Scales the number of nearest neighbors to query the vector index, while returning the originally requested number of nearest neighbors.

> Setting this value above `1.0` can increase the accuracy, at the cost of increased query time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting this value above `1.0` can increase accuracy at the cost of query time.
```

Accepted values::: `FLOAT`: between `1.0` and `10_000.0` _inclusive_.
Default values::: Dependent upon the value of xref:indexes/semantic-indexes/vector-indexes.adoc#config-vector.quantization.type[].

[%header,cols="m,m"]
|===
| Value of xref:indexes/semantic-indexes/vector-indexes.adoc#config-vector.quantization.type[]
| Default value xref:indexes/semantic-indexes/vector-indexes.adoc#config-vector.default_search_expansion_factor[]

| 'none' | 1.0
| 'scalar' | 1.5

> | 'binary' | 2.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 'binary' label:preview[] | 2.0
```

Accepted values::: `BOOLEAN`: `true`, `false`.
Default value::: `true`

[role=label--new-Neo4j-2026.06]
[[config-vector.quantization.type]]
==== `vector.quantization.type`

Quantization is a technique to reduce the size of vector representations.

> Setting a quantization type can accelerate search performance but can decrease accuracy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting a quantization type can accelerate search performance but decrease accuracy.
```

> Binary quantization is a more aggresive form of Scalar quantization, reducing each dimension to a single bit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Binary quantization is a more aggressive form of Scalar quantization, reducing each dimension to a single bit.
```

> If xref:indexes/semantic-indexes/vector-indexes.adoc#config-vector.default_search_expansion_factor[] is set larger than `1.0`, and the quantization type is not `'none'`, the returned nearest neighbors would be rescored with their unquantized vector values to increase accuracy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If xref:indexes/semantic-indexes/vector-indexes.adoc#config-vector.default_search_expansion_factor[] is set larger than `1.0`, and the quantization type is not `'none'`, the returned nearest neighbors are rescored with their unquantized vector values to increase accuracy.
```

It is recommended to use quantization on machines with limited memory.

Accepted values::: `STRING`: `'none'`, `'scalar'`, `'binary'`.
Default value::: `'scalar'`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

[NOTE]
The `'binary'` value is currently in preview.
```

== Vector index providers for compatibility

It is not possible to specify an index provider when creating indexes in Cypher 25.
Instead, Neo4j selects the most feature-rich provider (`vector-2026.06` for vector indexes as of Neo4j 2026.06).
Previously created `vector-1.0`, `vector-2.0`, and `vector-3.0` indexes will continue to function.

.Identify the provider used by vector indexes in a database
[source, cypher]
----
SHOW VECTOR INDEXES YIELD name, type, indexProvider
----
.Learn more about the `vector-2026.06` provider label:new[Introduced in Neo4j 2026.06]
[%collapsible]
====
[%header,cols="d,d"]
|===
| Feature | Capability

| Index schema
| multi-label, multi-property index for nodes.

{nbsp}

multi-type, multi-property index for relationships.

{nbsp}

Only one vector property can be stored per node or relationship.
Any additional properties included in the index must be one of the following types:
`INTEGER`, `FLOAT`, `STRING`, `BOOLEAN`, `DATE`, `ZONED DATETIME`, `LOCAL DATETIME`, `ZONED TIME`, `LOCAL TIME` or `DURATION`.

| Indexed property value type

> | `VECTOR` or `LIST<INTEGER \| FLOAT>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `VECTOR` or `LIST<INTEGER \| FLOAT>`.
```

| Indexed vector dimension
| `INTEGER` between `1` and `4096` _inclusive_.

| Indexed vector quantization

> | Supported both scalar and binary quantization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Scalar and binary quantization supported.
Binary quantization is currently in preview.
```

| Indexed vector dimension
| `INTEGER` between `1` and `4096` _inclusive_.

| Indexed vector quantization

> | Supported

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Scalar quantization supported.
```

| Indexed vector dimension
| `INTEGER` between `1` and `4096` _inclusive_.

| Indexed vector quantization

> | Supported

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Scalar quantization supported.
```
